[SOUND] Let us consider
a real life application to
demonstrate the utility and
the challenges of big data.
Many industries naturally deal
with large amounts of data.
For our discussion, we consider
an energy company that provides gas and
electricity to its
consumers in an urban area.
In this news report, you can see
that Commonwealth Edison, or Con Ed,
the gas and electric provider of New York,
decided to place smart meters
all through its jurisdictions.
That comes to 4.7 million smart meters.
Now smart meters are smart because aside
from measuring energy consumption,
they have a two way communication
capability between the meter and
the central system at the gas and
electric company.
In other words, they generate real time
data from the meters to be stored and
processed at the central facility.
How much data?
According to this report,
the number of data received at
the center is 1.5 billion per day.
So the system will not only consume
this data, but process it and
produce output at 15-minute intervals,
and sometimes, 5 minute intervals.
Let's do the math.
That comes to ingesting and processing
about 10.5 million data
points per 15 minutes.
So what kind of computation must
take place within these 15 minutes?
Well, one obvious computation is billing,
where one needs to compute who, especially
in the commercial sector, who actually
owns the meter and should be billed?
This requires combining the meter data
with the data in the customer
database maintained by the company.
But let's just consider
computation related to analytics.
We can list at least four
different kinds of computations.
The first is computing the consumption
pattern per user, not per meter.
Per user, where the output is
a histogram of hourly usage.
So the x axis of the histogram
is hourly intervals And
the y-axis is a number of units consumed.
This leads to the computed both daily and
over larger time periods.
To determine the hourly requirements for
this consumer.
The second computation relates
to estimating the effects of
outdoor temperature on the electricity
consumption of each consumer.
For those you who
are statistically inclined,
this often involves fitting a piece-wise
linear progression model to the data.
The third task is to extract the daily
consumption trends that occur
regardless of the outdoor temperature.
This is again a statistical computation,
and may require something like
a periodic alter regression algorithm,
for time series theta.
The algorithm is not that important there.
What's more important is the ability to
make make good prediction has a direct
economic impact because the company
needs to buy energy from others.
For example, an under-prediction
implies they'll end up paying more for
buying energy at the last moment to
meet the consumer's requirements.
The fourth task is to find groups of
similar consumers based on their usage
pattern so that the company can determine
how many distinct groups of customers
there are and design targeted energy
saving campaigns for each group.
This requires finding similarities
over large number of time series data,
which is a complex computation.
Regardless of the number and
complexity of computation required,
the company's constrained by the fact that
it has only 15 minutes to process the data
before the next and
computation has to be performed.
That issue is not just
the bigness of the data, but
the strip and
strings of the arrival to output time.
The analytics has value, only if it can be
completed within the life-cycle deadline.
So if we were to design a big data system
for such a company, you would need to
understand how much are the computation
can be executed in parallel And
how many machines with what kind of
capability are required to handle the data
rate and the number and complexity of
the analytical computations needed?